

# OpenStreetMap
 > This week I learned about OpenStreetMap from my independent study class, thereafter I was instructed to make edits to OpenStreetMap to increase accuracy. While looking
 > through OpenStreetMap I noticed that my area was missing key elements. There were stores and buildings
 > that were there for decades that have never been added to the map in addition to the maps being 
 > outdated. After seeing the outdated material I added the names of a few places which needed updates. The locations I updated include a Jewish Chapel that also co-functions as a funeral home,
 > a T-Mobile store, and a furniture store that was recently opened. 
  
## Link
  [OpenStreetMap History](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/Jimmyzs/history)
   
  This is the link to my OpenStreetMap edit history.
  
# Free and Open Source Software Readings
 > This week my objective was to read and understand the history of Open Source Software and the difference between Open Source and Free Software.
 > The main focus of my readings was Richard Stallman, a pioneer in developing and popularizing free and open source software. The most important
 > contributions made by him were building GNU, introducing the idea of copy-left and founding the Free Software Foundation.
 > GNU was the first free and open source operating system, which was one of the starting points for the free and open source
 > software movement. One of the main focuses of GNU Copy-left license as it states that anyone is allowed to read, modify,
 > and redistribute the software under the condition that the license be transferred with the product.
 
 > Another major factor regarding the material read is Eric Raymond of which had many interesting principles about the development of open source projects. Users are a valuable
 > resource to developers because they are able to give feedback and ideas about how to improve usability.
 > Treating the users as co-developers is useful since there are typically more users than developers. Users are
 > able to spot more bugs and additional features.
 
 > These readings give a description of why free and open source software exists and the benefits of the style.
 > Free software seems to be a way to combat companies collecting and selling user information. Although the idea
 > seems good it doesn't reach the general public as there aren't many successful free and open source
 > social media platforms.
  
## Links
 * [Producing Open Source Software](https://producingoss.com/) by Karl Fogel
 * [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) by Eric Raymond
 * [Why Open Source misses the point of Free Software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html) by Richard Stallman
  
 > These are links to readings about the history and development of free and open source software.

