

# Wikipedia's Controversy

## Thoughts

### Brief Summary
> The article was about a dispute that arose pertaining to if Catalina Cruz (politician) should receive a Wikipedia's page as she was a running candidate that had not received one. The creator of the article was one of the parties that had a disagreement with Wikipedia's editors which lead to the permanent ban of the article editor under the name "BrillLyle".

### The Page
> The Wikipedia's page for Catalina Cruz was taken down in March because she was not considered notable. When the page was taken down, there was a debate within the community about the issue, consequently the discussion concluded with the page remaining down until she wins the election or becomes notable. I agree with the take down of the page because it consistent with the treatment of other politicians under the same circumstances. Wikipedia has limited resources in which the guidelines are consistently enforced to all individuals; therefore, I have no reason to disagree. The page could have definitely aided Catalina Cruz's campaign, but in my opinion the terms of service written but Wikipedia make it clear that no party shall be given favoritism within reason; therefore, in this case the need to bend the rules was not warranted. 

### The Ban
> The author being banned was definitely warranted because she publicly connected a Wikipedia's editor to their account. The real name of a editor she was having an argument with should not have been leaked even if she felt she was being treated unfairly. Although it is not known if leaking the editor's name was accidental or malicious, there could have been consequences from her actions. 
  
### Notability
> It seems that the guidelines on who could have a Wikipedia's page is strict. I believe it would be a good idea to have a page for every candidate as it would give more exposure to lesser known names and informs voters about their stances thereby removing this problem entirely. I understand the guidelines help raise the quality of the pages and keeps the amount of pages manageable; therefore, I stand with my decision behind Wikipedia. 

### Note
> The Wikipedia's page for Catalina Cruz (Politician) is still currently down, but there is an [everybodywiki](https://en.everybodywiki.com/Catalina_Cruz_(politician))

### Link 
> [Link to article](https://qz.com/1352568/running-for-office-is-hard-when-you-have-a-porn-stars-name-this-makes-it-worse/)


