---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Software Licenses

__Copyleft__
* A method of making a program or work free along with any of its modified or derivative versions. A program is copyrighted and distributed along with a license that allows view, modification and distribution of its code. Derivative works must distributed under the same license.

__Permissive Software Licenses__
* Free software licenses that have requirements for distribution of derivative versions. Works using permissive licesnes can be re-licensed and require attribution to the original source.

__GNU General Public License Differences__
* GPL versions 2 and 3 are strong copyleft licenses that allow for modification and distribution of software. LGPL is a weak copyleft license that allows the software to be used alongside nonfree modules. AGPL is a copyleft license used for free software that will be used over a network. GNU All-Permissive License is used for small files and allows for copying, modification and distribution. Each license serves a different purpose and is choosen depending on the needs of a creator and the type of work.

__GNU General Public License__
* A license that allows for copy, distribution and modification of software. Derivative versions must include the original, attribute the source and include the same license. It does not allow for sublicensing.

__Apache License 2.0__
* The license allows users to do whatever they like with the software as long as changes are listed, attributions are given and the same license is used. Trademarks are not made open source and cannot be used. Sublicenses are allowed under Apache License 2.0.

__Mozilla Public license 2.0__
* The software license allows modification, distribution and sublicensing as long as the same license and source is included. MPL software can be used along with proprietary code as long as they are separate. Trademarks cannot be used.

__Creative Commons Licenses__
* Creaive Commons Licenses allows others to copy and distribute work non-commercially as long as the creator is give credit. The creator of the work can restrict the commercial use and derivatives of their work. It is not ideal to use Creative Commons Licenses because constributors might need permission from the original creator. Contributors are not considered creators/licensors of derivative works but licensees.





