---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Open Source Projects

## Quantum GIS

QGIS is an open source project hosted on [Github](https://github.com/qgis). They have their [website](qgis.org) that holds their client and information pertaining to the project.

1 . **Find the Project License**

QGIS is licensed under GNU General Public License. This license allows for copying, modifying and redistributing as long as credit is given and changes indicated. When distributing modified versions of QGIS code, it must be under the same license.

2 . **Assessing Activity**

QGIS is an active project with daily contributions and updates. The last commit was made as of writing this post was on 10/31/18. This could be found on the commits tab of the [QGIS Github page](https://github.com/qgis/QGIS/commits/master). The project has had 291 contributors throughout its time on Github and the project has been forked over 1,300 times. There are dozens of commits made per day. The issue tab of QGIS has been disabled, but they have a forum in addition to a IRC channel. There are currently 33 open pull requests. Maintainers will write comments on a pull request within a few hours unless they are merged. Discussion are active on pull requests in order to get more information or to find out alternative solutions. Most of the pull requests are within 30 days and are closed quickly. The most recent pull request was on 10/31/18.

3 . **Assessing the Welcomeness**

The community seems respectful and welcoming. The project has a [diversity statement](https://qgis.org/en/site/getinvolved/governance/codeofconduct/diversitystatement.html) in it website welcoming anyone to contribute. From what I have seen from looking through pull request comments, everyone is respectful. QGIS has a whole repository on documentation and how the code should be formated which is very helpful in reading the code. The QGIS website has a [page](https://qgis.org/en/site/getinvolved/governance/codeofconduct/codeofconduct.html) on a Code of Conduct that should be followed communication with others. Pull requests are reviewed within hours of being issued and maintainers are polite when asking for more information. 

__What programming lanuages are used in the project?__

QGIS is written in mostly C++ with some python.

__What is the development environment, and how hard is it to download and install it?__

On the QGIS github page there is a repository for the [development environment](https://github.com/qgis/homebrew-qgisdev) and steps to install it.

__How hard is it to understand the project code? Is it a large code base?__

This project is a decent size and there is a test file to check if the code works. The code could be understood by following the test and seeing what each part does.

__How mature is the project? Is it very new, or has it been around for a long time? Does it have a stable release yet?__

QGIS is on version 3.4.0 and has been around for around 16 years. There is a stable release as shown by the [download page](http://download.osgeo.org/qgis/win64/) with many versions.

## LibreOffice

LibreOffice is a Free and Open Source word document software that has over 400,000 users world wide according to their website. The project has an OpenHub page and its code is available on Github. 

__How many lines of code does LibreOffice have?__

LibreOffice has 9,284,387 lines of code according to their [OpenHub page](https://www.openhub.net/p/libreoffice). There have been over 1,800 contributors to this project and from a look at the summary page, OpenOffice is a massive project. 

__What percentage of code is comments?__

When clicking [link](https://www.openhub.net/p/libreoffice/analyses/latest/languages_summary) about the amount of lines of code, the lines are broken down into statistics about how much is code, comments and blank lines. Of the over 12 million total lines of code, around 1.5 million(12.2%) is comments.


__How many commits were made in the last 30 days, based on OpenHub statistics?__

The statistics on the commits to LibreOffice could be checked by clicking the [hyperlink](https://www.openhub.net/p/libreoffice/commits/summary) about the amount of commits. In the last 30 days, there was 1,177 commits made by 68 contributors. It seems that the contributors to OpenOffice are very active as it averages to around 17 commits per contributor.

__Core code__

The [LibreOffice repository](https://github.com/LibreOffice/core) on Github is overwelming at first glance due to its sheer size. All of the folders contain a README.md file that explains what is contained in each folder. It is hard to read the code and follow what it does since there isn't a main file that goes through the steps of the code.

1 . __Finding the Project License__

LibreOffice's project license could be found on its OpenHub page. LibreOffice uses GNU Lesser General Public License v3.0 and Mozilla Public License 2.0. These licenses allow modification and distribution of the code, but requirements have to be met. The modified code must contain the copyright and license, state changes made, give credit and distribute the original.

2 . __Assessing Activity__

The last commit was made on 10/31/18. LibreOffice does not accept pull requests from Github and has their own way of making changes as stated on their [website](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Development/GetInvolved). LibreOffice gives step by step instructions on how to set up the application on your local machine, where to find bugs and how to submit changes.

3 . __How welcoming is the project?__

The project welcomes everyone to contribute to the project. The maintainers are friendly and directs would be contributors to their website to learn how to contribute. The community encourages more woment to to take part in the project and even creating a LibreLadies channel. There is a [code of conduct](https://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Diversity) that is expected to be followed to keep the community thriving.

 
## Doxygen

__How many lines of code does Doxygen have?__

Doxygen has 279,317 lines of code according to [Openhub](https://www.openhub.net/p/doxygen/analyses/latest/languages_summary). The code has 58,761 lines of comments which is 15.6% of the total amount of lines.

__How many commits were made in the last 30 days__

According to [Openhub](https://www.openhub.net/p/doxygen/commits/summary) there were 43 commits in the last 30 days and it was made by only 3 people. It seems that there is a small community that is not very active.

1 . __Finding the Project License__

The project license can be found on Doxygens OpenHub page. Doxygen uses GNU General Public License v2.0. It allows modification and distribution of the code as long as credit is given, copyright and license is included and that the original is distributed. 

2 . __Accessing Activity__

According to OpenHub's analytics the last commit made to Doxygen was 19 days ago. On Github however there are commits and pull requests made daily. There has been a total of 122 contributors to Doxygen on Github. There are 5-10 commits made daily and it seems to all be made by a few people. There are around 2,000 issues open. From the content of the issues, Doxygen uses the issue tab document bugs and state who is assigned to them. Some of the issues have been around for over a dozen years. There is discussion on more recent issues and the commenters are respectful when asking for more information. There are currently 72 open pull requests and they are a mixture of old and new pull requests. Maintainers respond to some pull requests, but there are some weeks old with no comments. There were pull requests merged just a few hours before this post. 

3 . __Assessing the Welcomeness__

The maintainers are respectful when responding to issues. The responses are mostly asking for more information. Only some of the pull request have comments on them, but there could be other methods that the maintainers contact the posters. As compared to QGIS and LibreOffice, Doxygen does not provide any way for new contributors to quickly understand the code. 









