---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# Teams
This week I have been added to a team with f0cus10 and FrancisXIrizarry. We read and made
changes to each other's week 1 and 2 posts to fix grammar mistakes. It was interesting reading about
my teammates' thoughts about the open source activities. 

# Avoiding Confusion
We decided to avoid confusion and extra work by creating a plan. Instead of having everyone edit each other's posts and creating merge conflicts, the work was divided before we began. There was some initial confusion that ended be not mattering. f0cus10 created the division of work in which, I forked f0cus10's repository, f0cus10 forked FrancisXIrizarry's repository and FrancisXIrizarry forks my repository. It was not seen that Francis had already forked f0cus10's repository, but since no one had started to work yet, we were able to sort it out. I think working as a team and pre-planning what we do is very important and saves a lot of time and work. The time that it takes to organize a task is much lower than the time it takes to fix mistakes from poor management.


# Merging Pull Requests

My teammates provided me with helpful suggestions to improve my blog posts and submitted pull requests to have the changes included. It's great to have other people look over my writing because they may catch any mistakes I missed. It's quite similar to how bugs in code are easily found when there are more eyes looking for them. Their pull requests gave me the opportunity to practice taking in pull requests and merging them into my local repository. Pull requests are useful tools for programmars because they allow outside help without giving access to the repository itself. The repository owner is able to look over the changes submitted, check if it works, choose what to keep and give feedback on what he/she is looking for. Planning out a project allows for simpler merges because there is less of a chance for multiple people to change the same file.


