---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Contributing to Open Source

Shubheksha Jalan wrote about her journey in working in open source. I have the same fear of making mistakes as Jalan when she first began working in open source. Luckily I won't be going into the world of open source software alone but with fellow classmates. Jalan mentioned how helpful a mentor was and I have Professor Weiss to guide me through how to contribute to open source. Hopefully I will be able to become as comfortable as she is in working in open source. There are many ways to contribute to an open source project. Craig Buchek gives a list of ways to contribute without coding. Jalan seems to have contributed in some of the same ways: fixing typos and comments. Fixing comments seems to me as a good way to start working on a project because it requires reading the code and understanding what it is supposed to do. I would like to start with a smaller and less complicated project because a large project would take much longer to understand. There are a multitude of open source projects on Github and Mozilla, but few are in C++ on Github. Find an open source project on Github and Mozilla have their pros and cons. Few Github projects are in C++, the language I am most comfortable in, and I am not familiar with Mozilla.

## Links
> [A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39)
> [How to Contribute to Open Source Without Coding](https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/)

# IRC
IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is a method of communicating as a team. I don't have much experience with IRCs as I mostly communicate with e-mails, texts, skype and discord. IRCs are very useful since it allows live discussions with an entire group. Slack is a very popular communication application and provides many of the things needed for team projects. I personally have no preference on the means of communication, but IRC appears to me as the better means of communication to a team. It keeps all of the messages organized, multiple channels can be quickly created to further organize members and responses will be quicker because messages will be available to the entire community.



